-: Welcome back.
In the previous lecture,
we have understood about context path based routing
in ingress in a architectural manner.
So now we are going to create two more applications for us,
which we are going to deploy as part of this demo, right?
So we are going to create Nginx App1
and then App2 Deployment,
and then Service.
So both deployment and then its equal in NodePort service,
we are going to create in a single YAML file
per application.
So for App1 Nginx,
05-Nginx-App1-Deployment-and-NodePortService.
And for App2 Nginx, it is going to be 06.
So these are regular deployment in NodePort services,
whatever we have implemented so far, right?
So we really don't need to write one more time
a live template for these things, okay?
So that's the reason I have written them
and then put it right here.
So this is the 08-03-ALB-Ingress-ContextPath-Based-Routing
inside the kube-manifests folder.
And inside that, you can see MySQL-externalName,
UserManagementMicroservice, Kubernetes-Secrets,
UserManagement-NodePort-Service.
After that, you get 05-Nginx-App1, right?
So its deployment is here.
So standard apps/v1 will be the apiVersion.
And the name...
So all those things are as usual, okay?
Spec will have, in general, for deployments,
replicas, selectors, and then pod template, right?
So 1 replica.
And then in matchLabels,
as usual, we know that we are going
to have the same value in matchLabels.
So whatever is there,
the same value will be there in pod template,
metadata labels also.
Finally, the pod spec will have the containers,
and inside that container,
my first container is app1-nginx.
And then I'm bringing that
from my stacksimplify/kube-nginxapp1 and 1.0.0 version.
And now, for this deployment,
you want to expose it as a NodePort service,
which we have done for multiple times.
So as usual, it is NodePort.
And then port is 80.
And then targetPort is 80. That's all.
We really don't need to mention any NodePort
because it is going to dynamically take that value.
So now one important thing here is annotations
I have written here, right, in this level.
So we'll come back to this in our next step.
Whatever we have written for our app1,
we have copy-pasted,
and then just changed it to app2 here, okay?
So we'll discuss about this health check path
annotation later.
So now let's move on
to 07-ALB-Ingress-ContextPath-Based-Routing.
So here comes our real work,
which we need to do from YAML perspective
to our manifest perspective.
So whatever we have implemented 'til Ingress Basic,
the same thing I have copied here.
We still didn't implement
any of the path based routing here.
So let's go ahead and then implement the path based routing.
So our path based routing is we have two more paths now.
So let's go ahead and then implement.
So this path, I'll copy-paste,
and then go to the Home, and then path, right?
And one more also I have,
which is nothing but one more, right?
So I will say
app1/*, right? Is the path.
If it comes here,
then it need to go to app1 NodePort service.
So I'll go to 05, nginx-nodeport-service,
and then I'll find this information, right?
app1-nginx-nodeport-service.
And I'll come and then update it.
And what is the port we are supposed to use?
The port, it is going to be port 80, right?
So this is the one.
Now, I have something called app2/*, right?
So now for app2/*,
we should have our app2 NodePort service, right?
So which is nothing but this one.
So let me copy this,
come back, and then update it.
And the port is going to be 80.
And finally, anything after app1 and app2,
anything other than app1 and app2,
if it comes with /*,
go to my usermgmt-restapp-nodeport-service with 8095.
So now one thing important here is,
an important note is...
Okay, important note which we need to know is
always, right, /* should be at the end.
So the pods will be validated like this, okay?
So first, if it is /app1, it will find it and then do it.
If this /*, if you put it at the starting...
So the order is very important.
If you put /* at the starting,
even if you send app1, app2,
he will send the,
the application load balancer
will send it to usermgmt-restapp-nodeport-service only.
So always, in this context path-related stuff,
always we need to put /* as our last path
for our entire manifest, okay?
So like that, we need to implement.
So now here is one more problem we have,
so which I also mentioned in the step here,
which is update health check path annotation
in your usermgmt-restapp-nodeport-service, okay?
So now if I deploy this, what happens?
Okay, what happens is, for all my three applications,
ideally, if I really didn't define these things here, okay,
if I didn't define these things here,
annotation and then health check part there,
for all the applications,
it is going to give user management health status,
and then it is going to throw an error
for app1 and then app2.
Due to avoid such type of situations,
like whatever is applicable at the NodePort service level,
we need to move them to the NodePort service level.
What all are generic,
then you can have them in the ingress template.
So again, I'm going to repeat this:
What all are generic for all the applications
which you are having load balancing as part of ingress,
so generic, you can have it in this ingress template.
And whatever you feel like these are specific
to those respective application,
move them under that application.
For me, these things are generic.
I really don't want to change...
Every application have these settings, as usual.
And for NodePort service,
I want to move this from here,
and then move under my user management NodePort service
example here, okay?
I already put it here,
but if you want it, you can move there.
So you need to add annotations,
and then move that from here.
So which means I need to just comment this here,
so that I really don't (speaks faintly).
So these are the changes we are supposed to do
as part of context path based routing.
So one is add the pods.
And then move /* at the end.
And then ensure that your health check path
is moved to a respective NodePort service,
where it should be configured.
That's all.
And in these things also,
you have configured your health checkers,
app1 in the start HTML.
and then app2 in the start HTML.
So in our next lecture,
we'll focus on implementing them and then testing them.
So I'll see you in the next lecture.
Until then, bye bye. Thank you.